Day 7 - focused on Operating System Hardening and implementing the Principle of Least Privilege (PoLP).
I transitioned from using a single administrative account to managing granular user permissions and recovering a system from a critical configuration failure.

🛠️ Skills Mastered
User Management: Created and managed restricted Linux users (useradd, passwd).

Sudoers Configuration: Implemented granular permissions using the modular /etc/sudoers.d/ directory.

System Recovery: Performed "emergency surgery" on a corrupted /etc/sudoers file using sed to remove syntax errors and restore administrative functionality.

Secure Automation: Used echo and tee to inject security policies without manual editor intervention (ideal for User Data scripts).

⚠️ Critical Incident & Resolution (detailed breakdown at the bottom)
During the lab, the main sudoers file became corrupted with syntax errors, causing sudo to fail system-wide.

Issue: Improperly saved characters in /etc/ssh/sshd_config caused a paralysis of administrative commands.

Solution: Utilized sed (Stream Editor) to surgically delete corrupted lines by line number, restoring the system to a healthy state without a reboot.

💡 Architectural Key Concept
Defense in Depth: Security isn't just about the AWS Security Group (Firewall). It is about layering security.
While the Security Group controls who can reach the server, Linux permissions control what they can do once they arrive.

Troubleshooting: Resolving Sudoers Corruption
During the configuration process, the /etc/sudoers file was accidentally saved with syntax errors (exit, x, X), which effectively locked out administrative privileges.

The Challenge:
Standard sudo commands failed with: syntax error at line 135. Because visudo (the safe editor) also relies on the sudoers file to validate permissions, I was stuck in a "What now?" loop where the system refused to save or exit cleanly.

The Solution:

Emergency Exit: Forced a quit from the corrupted visudo session using the (x) exit without saving option to regain terminal control.

Non-Interactive Repair: Used the sed (Stream Editor) utility to delete the specific corrupted lines without opening a manual editor:

Bash
sudo sed -i '134,140d' /etc/sudoers
Validation: Verified system health with sudo ls /root to ensure the syntax was clean.

Architectural Pivot: To prevent future corruption, I abandoned direct modification of /etc/sudoers and switched to the Drop-in Directory method (/etc/sudoers.d/).

Key Takeaway: Never edit the "Main Engine" if you can use a "Plugin." Using sudoers.d ensures that a typo in a user policy doesn't paralyze the entire operating system.

---------------------------------------------------------

Day 8 - Implementing a Reverse Proxy on AWS EC2

Overview
Today, I transitioned from a basic web server to a Multi-Tier Architecture by configuring Nginx as a Reverse Proxy. I moved away from dynamic IP addresses by implementing an AWS Elastic IP, 
ensuring a persistent entry point for the server.

Key Technical Concepts
Static Networking: Allocated and associated an Elastic IP to prevent IP address changes on instance reboot.

Reverse Proxy Configuration: Configured Nginx to listen on Port 80 and forward traffic to an internal application running on Port 8080.

Package Management: Installed nc (Netcat) via yum to simulate a backend application environment.

Troubleshooting (The "502 Bad Gateway"): * Diagnosed connection issues between the proxy and the backend.

Utilized ss -tulpn to verify port listening status.

Resolved permission issues by adjusting SELinux boolean settings (httpd_can_network_connect).

Challenges faced:

The Backend (The "Hidden App")
I used a simple command (nc or Netcat) to simulate a real-world application like a Python or Node.js server.

The Challenge: I found the tool wasn't there (command not found).

The Fix: I used yum install

The Result: I had a service running "internally" on the server that only Nginx could easily talk to.

Troubleshooting 
The 502 Bad Gateway was encountered when I searched for the IP address.

Is the Door Open? (Security Groups/Firewalls)

Is the Service Running? (Checking ss -tulpn to see if Port 8080 was listening)

Is the Gateway Allowed to talk? (SELinux permissions)

-------------------------------------------------

Day 9: Mastering the Application Load Balancer (ALB) Handshake
Objective: Deploy a fault-tolerant web architecture and resolve complex Port-Mapping challenges between the Load Balancer and backend services.

Key Accomplishments:

Dynamic Scaling: Re-deployed a high-availability fleet using Auto Scaling Groups (ASG) across three Availability Zones (AZs).

Advanced Port Routing: Successfully configured an ALB to listen on standard web traffic (Port 80) and route it to a custom backend application running on Port 8080.

Infrastructure Debugging: Identified and resolved a "Connection Refused" error by aligning Target Group protocols with backend User Data service configurations.

Security Chaining: Refined Security Group rules to allow seamless traffic flow while maintaining a "Least Privilege" security posture.

Technical Stack:

AWS Services: EC2, Application Load Balancer (ALB), Auto Scaling Groups (ASG), VPC (Internet Gateways & Route Tables).

Scripting: Bash (automated Nginx setup and background Netcat service).

Today highlighted the importance of 'The Handshake.' Even with healthy targets, a single port mismatch can break an entire architecture. By reconfiguring the Target Group to bridge the gap between Port 80 and Port 8080, I achieved a seamless, load-balanced user experience without requiring users to specify custom ports in the URL.

Please see attached file with screenshots

----------------------------------------------

Day 10: Implementing Scalable Shared Storage with Amazon EFS
Objective: To move from "Local Storage" to "Shared Network Storage," allowing multiple EC2 instances to access a single source of truth simultaneously.

Key Accomplishments:

Provisioned Amazon EFS: Created a high-availability Elastic File System across multiple Availability Zones.

Engineered NFS Security: Configured a dedicated Storage Security Group to allow inbound traffic on Port 2049 (NFS) specifically from the web server tier.

Real-time Data Sync: Successfully mounted the EFS volume to two independent EC2 instances using the amazon-efs-utils helper with TLS encryption.

Validated Persistence: Verified that files created on Instance A were instantly available and editable on Instance B, proving a "stateless" architecture.

Technical Stack:

AWS Services: Amazon EFS, EC2, VPC.

Protocols: NFS v4.1, TCP Port 2049.

Linux Tools: mount, df -h, mkdir, amazon-efs-utils.

The "Cloud Architect" Insight:

"By separating compute from storage, I've created an architecture that is resilient to instance failure. If a server is terminated, the data survives in EFS. This is the foundation for scaling web applications that require shared media or configuration files."

